[Music]
now many country flags can you identify
without looking them up
well you most definitely know this one
and this one but what about these two
here when I say two I really mean it
some countries have flags so similar
they will give even a geography fan a
hard time New Zealand and Australia
let's start down under it's
understandable Australia and New Zealand
have a lot in common but their flags
just look way too similar both of them
are essentially a blue field with Union
Jack to represent their British colonial
past in the top inner corner this canvas
is called the British Blue Ensign the
difference between the two flags is in
the shades of the blues and reds and the
Stars flag of New Zealand has four of
them representing the Southern Cross
constellation flag of Australia has the
same constellation but pictured in five
stars and an extra larger star that is
called a Commonwealth or Federation star
Indonesia and Monaco and contrast to the
previous pair of countries these two
have basically nothing that brings them
together except for they're almost
identical flags both are hundreds of
years old and both are essentially two
horizontal stripes in red and white is
using the heralded colors of the shield
of the Monegasque that's a fancy way of
saying related to Monaco royal family
arms the flag of Indonesia is a reminder
of those times when it was associated
with the much of a hit Empire white and
red and it symbolizes duality of nature
the only difference between the two
flags is that Indonesian is longer and
here comes a plot twist
if you turn any of these two flags
upside down you'll see the flag of
Poland with a white stripe over a red
stripe
Venezuela Colombia Ecuador in 1822 the
newly created country of Gran Colombia
made its national flag a canvas of three
unequal horizontal stripes in yellow
blue and red and even though that state
existed only for eight years it's legacy
lives on in the flags of Venezuela
Colombia and Ecuador that have made the
basis for their individual flags flag of
Venezuela has stripes equal in size and
are curved stars in the middle and the
national coat of arms in the upper hoist
corner the flag of Ecuador also features
the national coat of arms except it's
right in the middle stripes in the flags
of Colombia and Ecuador are a different
width and yellow is the largest of them
nicaragua and honduras both of these
flags are based on the flag of the
United Provinces of Central America a
country that existed in the 19th century
Honduras adopted its official flag in
1866 it has five stars against the white
background of its central horizontal
stripes they stand for five original
Central American provinces of Nicaragua
Honduras Guatemala Costa Rica and El
Salvador it's interesting that the flag
of Nicaragua has the same symbolism
except it has five volcanoes instead of
five stars the blue stripes on both
flags stand for the Caribbean Sea and
the Pacific Ocean Norway in Iceland
both of these Nordic countries have
derived their flag from the appear
Denmark so both feature a white
Scandinavian cross and a color
combination of red and blue red is the
dominant colour of the Norwegian flag
and the cross is white border the flag
of Iceland has way more blue and a red
cross that's also white border
[Music]
Luxembourg and Netherlands the red white
and blue tricolor has been the official
Dutch flag since mid 17th century so
it's easily one of the oldest flags in
the world that later inspired other
famous tricolors such as those of France
and Russia until that time the upper
stripe used to be orange the color of
Dutch royalty flag and Luxembourg didn't
stem from its neighbor but developed on
its own the two banners differ in the
shades of blue and their ratio to 3/4
Netherlands and 3/5 for Luxembourg
Tunisia and Turkey the Turkish flag as
we know it today with a white star and a
crescent was adopted in the 19th century
and derived from the flag of Ottoman
Empire back around the same time Tunisia
was also part of the Ottoman Empire but
it had some commercial independence so
the ruler of the country Nelson Bay ii
had a hard time picking a flag that
would look like the Ottoman one but not
to be identical he didn't want his ships
to be confused with Ottoman ships and be
attacked by countries they had peace
treaties with so the modern flag of
Tunisia has been around since 1827 and
looks very much like the Turkish flag
Egypt Iraq Yemen all of these countries
flags are based on the arab liberation
flag of 1952 it consisted of three
horizontal stripes of red white and
black the red stands for unity and blood
shred in the name of revolution white
symbolizes a bright future and black
stands for the dark past the modern flag
of Yemen is basically the hour of
liberation flag and the flags of Egypt
and Iraq had their own symbolism added
the Egyptian flag features its national
emblem the eagle of Saladin right in the
middle the current version of the flag
of Iraq was adopted in 2008 where
changes were made to the symbols in
green in the center of it
Bahrain and Qatar flags of Bahrain and
Qatar are often mistaken for one another
but local people will assure you they
are completely different first of all
the Bahraini flag is white and red and
the flag of Qatar is white and maroon
second the latter has nine white points
that Qatar became the ninth member of
the reconciled emirates of the persian
gulf in 1916 the flag of Bahrain has
five white points that symbolized the
five pillars of Islam
Samoa and Taiwan the UN proclaimed the
official flag of Samoa in 1949 it is a
red field that has a blue rectangle in
the upper corner it features the
Southern Cross constellation with four
large stars and one smaller star Taiwan
has the flag of the Republic of China
for its national banner it's also a red
field with blue in the upper corner you
can also see a white disc that stand for
the Sun with 12 triangles or raised
around it in the blue field slovenia
slovakia russia the russian tricolour
inspired by the dutch flag was used on
merchant ships and as a national flag
since 1696 it was replaced during the
soviet times and reintroduced in 1991 in
the 1:2 ratio the Russian tricolor
became the inspiration for flags of many
countries in eastern and southern Europe
the two big differences between the
flags of Russia Slovakia and Sylvania
are the length Russian flag is shorter
and the fact that both Slovakia and
Slovenia have their coat of arms proudly
set in the middle of their tricolors
Croatia and Paraguay it seems like there
is hardly any connection between these
two states geographically so wide apart
yet they both have a tricolour in the
same order of colors as their national
banner Croatian flag also has a shield
in the middle with a crown made up of
five ancient coat of arms of Croatia and
it's religions Dubrovnik dome Atiyah
Austria and Slavonia the flag of
Paraguay bears the colors of the French
tricolour since many historians believe
independence movements in Latin America
were inspired by the French Revolution
and since you already know the French
flag is a variation of the Dutch
tricolour they do have some common
history with the Croatian flag after all
one unique thing about the flag of
Paraguay is that it's double sided with
the national coat of arms on the obverse
and the seal of Treasury on the reverse
Ireland and India have you ever noticed
the flags of islands in India are of
exactly the same colors now you have
your welcome in the case with Ireland
the green widen are in symbolize peace
between Roman Catholics and the
Protestants everyone was hoping for in
the 19th century when the flag was
adopted white in this case is the color
of truce as for the Indian flag orange
in it stands for courage and sacrifice
white for peace and truth and green for
faith and chivalry there's also a 24
spoke wheel in the middle that's called
Ashoka Chakra
and now prepare to be amazed there is no
other pair of flags in the world that
looks this much alike Romania and Chad
it takes a real flag expert to spot any
differences between the flags of Romania
and Chad the difference is in the slight
variations of shades between the blue
yellow and red vertical stripes the two
flags of totally different origins the
modern version of the Romanian flag was
adopted in 1861 after a few variations
to the previous versions Chad got its
banner in 1960 when it had received
independence from France in the first
version there was a green stripe but it
looked too much like the flag of Mali so
they added a blue stripe instead can you
think of any other flags that look alike
let me know in the comment section below
don't forget to give this video a like
share it with your friends and click
subscribe to stay on the bright side of
life
[Music]
you